So going back to ser and the estar and the difference between ser and the estar, how would you say sincerity in Spanish?
Sincerity
Is it sinceridad?
It is sinceridad.
So if you had to guess what is sincere in Spanish, what would you guess?
Sincero.
Good.
So there's no rule for this.
But if we have sincerity becoming sinceridad, we can guess that sincere will be very similar in Spanish and we can
play around and try to find the sincero.
Good.
So do you think to be sincere is a state or a characteristic?
It can be both, depending on the situation.
Indeed.
But if you look at the concept, the concept of sincere, because this is how Spanish decides it, the concept of sincere
Is it a state or a characteristic, to be sincere?
Well if it's generally it's a it's it's a characteristic, but if someone We're talking about that moment
tha that someone is saying something, then in that moment they're being they're in that state of being sincere.
You're right, and our usage, and that's what we're gonna look at now, can get around that.
But
Spanish is not looking at the use.
It's looking just at the concept by itself.
So sincerity, is it a characteristic or is it the state?
It's a characteristic.
Good.
So it goes with ser
So if you want to say I am sincere, how would you say it?
Soy sincero.
Sincera.
Good.
Soy sincera.
And we are sincere.
Somos sinceras, if it's women.
Good.
Or sinceros.
But as you correctly said
You might want to say, I'm being sincere now.
So to give the meaning of I am being sincere, you will say very literally, I am
Being sincere.
So how would you say that?
I am being sincere
Estoy I forgot the word for being.
Ser is to be in this case no because it refers to sincero.
So how would you make that ing?
Vender, vendiendo, ser.
Or in your case it would be sincera.
Good.
Stoy siendo sincera.
Or estoy siendo sincero.
Honest in Spanish is honesto.
So how would you say we are being honest?
Estamos siento honestos.
Good.
Estamos sendo honestos.
So to be honest as an idea is characteristic.
But this doesn't restrict us in Spanish.
Of course, if you want to say we are being honest, we can do that in exactly the same way as we do in English.
We are stamus being siendo our characteristic to be honestos.
Stamps siendo honestos.
Good.
Salir is to to go out or to leave.
Salir, to go out or to live.
And it's irregular in that the I version is not salo, but you remember how it was?
Salgo.
Good.
I leave or I go out.
Soon, soon in Spanish is pronto.
So you can say I'm leaving soon.
Is soon right now?
No.
So how would you say I'm leaving soon?
Salgo pronto.
Good.
And how would you say I'm leaving tomorrow?
Salgo mañana.
Good.
Salgo manana.
But if you want to say I'm leaving right now and you mean this moment
Estoy saliendo.
So we need to resist the temptation of the negative language transfer from English, which will make us want to put ing
in many places where we don't put it in Spanish, which is why we are giving usually in the present tense both translations.
I wait, I'm waiting, I sell, I'm selling
To buy was comprar.
Comprar.
I buy them or I'm buying them.
How would that be?
Los compro.
Good.
I'm buying them tomorrow.
Los compro mañana.
Good.
I'm buying them next week.
Next week is the week that comes.
La semana is the week.
What is to come?
Venir.
Good.
So how would you say the week that comes?
La semana ke
So I'm buying them next week, I'm buying them the week that comes.
Good.
Los compro la semana que viene.
So again here we would use the ing in English.
I'm buying them next week, but we want to resist that temptation in Spanish.
Los compro la semana que viene.
If you wanted to say right now, so maybe you get a phone call and somebody asks you, have you bought them yet?
And you say I'm buying them now, how would you say that?
Good, good.
I'm buying them now.
Los estoy comprando ahora.